                       Pidentd, version 2.4

     ("Peter's Ident Daemon" or is it "Portable Ident Daemon"?)

		Peter Eriksson <pen@lysator.liu.se>


LICENSE/LEGALESE

This program is released into the public domain and can be used by
anyone who wants to. Vendors may include it into their distributions
if they want to without any restrictions. (Although it would be nice
to be notified by email if someone decides to do that, and/or a note
somewhere about who wrote this program. Like in the man-page or so.. :-)



DESCRIPTION

This is a program that implements the RFC1413 identification server. It
was very much inspired by Dan Bernstein's original 'authd' (but unlike
that program doesn't use 'netstat' to get some of the information) It
uses the kernel information directly.  (And is due to that fact a lot
faster). Dan has now written another version of the 'authd' daemon that
uses his 'kstuff' to read the kernel information. Unlike that daemon,
this will use only normally available kernel access functions (and is due
to that more limited in the different machines it support). Please note
that this daemon used to be called pauthd but has changed name to better
reflect what it does (and to conform to the new RFC).


COMMAND LINE OPTIONS

See the manual page for information about the various command line
options that are available.

NOTE: One should NOT use the -d option when using it for normal use!



CLIENT LIBRARIES

If you intend to create or modify daemons that use the IDENT protocol
then you may wish to get the "libident" library that contains some
functions to implement the client side of this protocol. It is available
as "libident-*.tar.Z" in "pub/ident/libs" at "ftp.lysator.liu.se".



MAILING LISTS

There is a mailing list for users of the IDENT(RFC1413)/TAP protocol called
'ident-users@lysator.liu.se' that you may want to consider joining.
Send mail to the address 'ident-users-request@lysator.liu.se' to 
join it. This list is intended for generic discussions on using this
protocol and it's associated tools.

If you only want to receive news about new (non-alpha/beta) releases of
Pidentd then you can join the 'ident-announce@lysator.liu.se' mailing
list. Send mail to the address 'ident-announce-request@lysator.liu.se' to 
join it. No discussions will take place on this list.

I also run a small mailing list for people who wants to act as testers
of new alpha/beta-versions of Pidentd. If you wish to join, please send
mail to the address 'pidentd-testers-request@lysator.liu.se'. (I can always
use more testers, so don't hesitate :-)

It's a human (namely me :-) that reads the letters sent to *-request.
Please include the full email address to which to wish to have the
letters sent.



INFORMATION REQUEST

I'm grateful for success/failure stories about installing/compiling this
daemon...

Please let me know if you find any bugs, or have ported it to other
machines (and care to share the changes with me and the world!).

Information of interrest:

  1. Machine and operating system type and version.
  2. Command line flags.
  3. Inetd.conf configuration.
  4. Did it work, or not. And if not - what did it report to the
     syslog file? (You'll have to add the "-l" option and probably
     reconfigure your Syslogd). If you use the "-d" option then
     you can see a verbose error if you Telnet into it directly and
     send it a query manually. (See the INSTALL file for more information).



			Peter Eriksson <pen@lysator.liu.se>, 13 Dec 1994
